1. Interfaces in C#
An interface is a contract that defines a set of members (methods, properties, events, indexers) without implementation.

Classes or structs that implement an interface must provide concrete definitions for all its members.

Interfaces support multiple inheritance in C#, unlike classes.

They are commonly used to achieve abstraction, loose coupling, and polymorphism.

Key Points:

Declared using the interface keyword.

Cannot contain fields or constructors.

Members are implicitly public and abstract.

A class can implement multiple interfaces.

Interfaces can inherit from other interfaces.

Example:

csharp
public interface IShape
{
    double Area();
    double Perimeter();
}

public class Circle : IShape
{
    public double Radius { get; set; }
    public Circle(double radius) => Radius = radius;

    public double Area() => Math.PI * Radius * Radius;
    public double Perimeter() => 2 * Math.PI * Radius;
}
2. User-Defined Types (UDTs)
In C#, user-defined types are custom data structures created by developers to model real-world entities.

Types include:

Classes → Reference types, support inheritance, encapsulation, polymorphism.

Structs → Value types, lightweight, cannot inherit from classes but can implement interfaces.

Enums → Represent a set of named constants.

Interfaces → Define contracts without implementation.

Delegates → Type-safe function pointers, used for callbacks/events.

Example of a Struct:

csharp
public struct Point
{
    public int X { get; set; }
    public int Y { get; set; }
}
3. Interfaces vs Abstract Classes
Interfaces → Only contracts, no implementation, multiple inheritance allowed.

Abstract Classes → Can have both abstract and concrete methods, single inheritance only.

4. Why Interfaces Matter
Promote dependency injection and testability.

Enable plug-and-play architecture.

Allow different classes to share common behavior without being tightly coupled.

🔹 25 Interview Questions & Answers
Basics
Q: What is an interface in C#?
A: A contract that defines members without implementation; classes/structs must implement them.

Q: Can interfaces have fields?
A: No, only methods, properties, events, and indexers.

Q: Can a class inherit multiple interfaces?
A: Yes, C# supports multiple interface inheritance.

Q: What is the default access modifier for interface members?
A: Public.

Q: Can interfaces contain constructors?
A: No, they cannot.

Advanced
Q: Difference between interface and abstract class?
A: Interfaces define only contracts; abstract classes can have both abstract and concrete methods.

Q: Can interfaces inherit other interfaces?
A: Yes, an interface can extend multiple interfaces.

Q: What happens if a class doesn’t implement all interface members?
A: It must be declared abstract.

Q: Can structs implement interfaces?
A: Yes, but they cannot inherit from classes.

Q: Can an interface have static methods?
A: Yes, starting from C# 8.0, interfaces can have static members and default implementations.

User-Defined Types
Q: What are user-defined types in C#?
A: Custom types like classes, structs, enums, interfaces, and delegates.

Q: Difference between class and struct?
A: Class → reference type, supports inheritance. Struct → value type, lightweight, no inheritance.

Q: What is an enum?
A: A set of named constants representing integral values.

Q: Can enums inherit from other types?
A: No, but they can have different underlying numeric types (int, byte, etc.).

Q: What is a delegate?
A: A type-safe function pointer used for callbacks and events.

Practical
Q: Why use interfaces in real projects?
A: For dependency injection, testability, and loose coupling.

Q: Example of interface in dependency injection?
A: ILogger interface implemented by FileLogger, DatabaseLogger.

Q: Can you implement multiple interfaces with same method signature?
A: Yes, but you may need explicit interface implementation to avoid ambiguity.

Q: What is explicit interface implementation?
A: Implementing interface members privately, accessible only via interface reference.

Q: Example of explicit implementation?
A:

csharp
interface IPrinter { void Print(); }
class Report : IPrinter
{
    void IPrinter.Print() => Console.WriteLine("Printing Report");
}
Conceptual
Q: How do interfaces support polymorphism?
A: Different classes implementing the same interface can be treated uniformly.

Q: Can you create an object of an interface?
A: No, but you can reference objects of classes implementing it.

Q: What is marker interface?
A: An empty interface used to tag classes (e.g., ISerializable).

Q: Can interfaces define events?
A: Yes, they can declare events.

Q: Why are interfaces important in OOP?
A: They enforce abstraction, promote flexibility, and enable multiple inheritance.
