A class is a blueprint for creating objects.

It defines fields (variables), properties, methods, and constructors.

Classes support encapsulation (hiding data), inheritance (reusing code), and polymorphism (flexibility in behavior).

Example:

csharp
public class Car
{
    public string Brand { get; set; }
    public void Drive()
    {
        Console.WriteLine($"{Brand} is driving.");
    }
}
🔹 Summary of Polymorphism in C#
Polymorphism means "many forms."

It allows methods to behave differently based on the object that calls them.

Two main types:

Compile-time polymorphism (Method Overloading)

Same method name, different parameter lists.

Runtime polymorphism (Method Overriding)

Base class method is overridden in a derived class using virtual and override.

Example:

csharp
public class Animal
{
    public virtual void Speak()
    {
        Console.WriteLine("Animal sound");
    }
}

public class Dog : Animal
{
    public override void Speak()
    {
        Console.WriteLine("Bark");
    }
}
Here, calling Speak() on Dog gives a different behavior than Animal.

🔹 25 Interview-Style Q&A on Classes & Polymorphism in C#
#	Question	Answer
1	What is a class in C#?	A class is a blueprint for creating objects, defining properties, methods, and behavior.
2	How do you create an object from a class?	Using the new keyword: Car myCar = new Car();
3	What is encapsulation?	Wrapping data and methods together while restricting direct access using access modifiers.
4	What are access modifiers in C#?	public, private, protected, internal, protected internal.
5	What is a constructor?	A special method used to initialize objects.
6	Can a class have multiple constructors?	Yes, through constructor overloading.
7	What is a destructor in C#?	A method called when an object is destroyed, defined with ~ClassName().
8	What is inheritance?	Mechanism where one class derives from another, reusing code.
9	What keyword is used for inheritance?	: (colon). Example: class Dog : Animal { }
10	What is polymorphism?	Ability of methods to take multiple forms depending on context.
11	Difference between overloading and overriding?	Overloading = same method name, different parameters. Overriding = redefining base class method in derived class.
12	Which keywords enable overriding?	virtual in base class, override in derived class.
13	Can static methods be overridden?	No, static methods belong to the class, not the instance.
14	What is the sealed keyword?	Prevents a class from being inherited or a method from being overridden.
15	What is an abstract class?	A class that cannot be instantiated and may contain abstract methods.
16	What is an interface?	A contract that defines methods/properties without implementation.
17	Difference between abstract class and interface?	Abstract class can have implementation; interface cannot.
18	What is the new keyword in method hiding?	It hides a base class method without overriding it.
19	What is runtime polymorphism?	Achieved using method overriding with virtual and override.
20	What is compile-time polymorphism?	Achieved using method overloading.
21	Can constructors be overridden?	No, constructors cannot be overridden.
22	What is the difference between class and object?	Class = blueprint; Object = instance of a class.
23	What is the base keyword used for?	To call base class constructors or methods.
24	What is the this keyword?	Refers to the current instance of the class.
25	Why is polymorphism important?	It increases flexibility, reusability, and maintainability of code.
